Greetings friends. This is my nixos config and the explanation behind it. I utilized several main sources when crafting this. The first and most important was: https://github.com/sioodmy/dotfiles. The second is the nixos options search, its tips, and skimming source code as needed.

Lets break down each section!

1. **desktop-envs:** This folder contains the various desktop environments, and the configs specific to ONLY those desktop environments. My wife was using pantheon but, for long-term use, I have opted to install elementary os on her computer. I personally use plasma and the gnome config is very much not fleshed out but will at least get gnome up and running with a nixos-rebuild boot.
2. **home-manager:** Here we have two situations. First, the host specific home-manager configs being EITHER king or queen. My pc or my wife's, which then calls the common home-manager config, settings, etc. Note: This will not enable the home-manager commands. You don't run home-manager switch to update home-manager, instead use nixos-rebuild. Please note that the queen section is considered deprecated.
3. **hosts:** This defines the two possible systems via a customized function 'mkhost'. You can define the host in multiple ways. One via 'sudo nixos-rebuild switch --flake .#king' (or .#queen). Another if installing from scratch via 'sudo nixos-install --flake .#king' (or .#queen). This mkhost is what defines which desktop environment you'll be using as well as which of the home-manager hosts you'll be using. the ? means that, if left as null, it will default to what follows.
4. **modules:** Here is where my custom nixos modules would go, If I had any! Currently there is only a nix config to generate a nixos installation image. It's extremely convenient to be able to specify the system settings for a nixos-iso before its generated so I don't have to mess with keyboard settings or a blue light filter.
5. **overlays:** This section is for overlays which I generally only use when something breaks. I don't currently use any packages or other things that require extensive overlays and do them in-line. When things break or fail to build, I usually am able to find an already generated github issue with the fix and I then rip that fix and then add an overlay for it.
6. **secrets:** I utilize ragenix. This is a fork / mirror of agenix that was written in rust and is intended to fix certain issues with the shell-based agenix. Its instructions are quite limited however you can follow the agenix instructions and replace most things 'agenix' with 'ragenix' and it will work.
7. **system:** This is the main system config that is shared by all hosts. You could do something similar with the home-manager setup and delegate a section for each host that then calls a common config, but I built two roughly identical pcs for my wife and I, so that wasn't needed. The parts that differ are included in hosts.
8. **Flake and scripts:** Finally we have the flake.nix, with the majority of its contents being called in the hosts/default.nix. My flake.nix is very simple because it delegates most of the calling to hosts/default.nix. It will NOT function with hosts. Each script and what it does:
   1. **gitupdate.sh:** This was once a simple script that is now quite complicated to describe. It should be accurately commented so please refer to it. It is run with the alias 'upgit', you may then add flags: --upflake, this will update the flake.nix and flake.lock, --gc, this will run garbage collection.
   2. **update-plasmamanager.sh:** This script runs 'nix run github:nix-community/plasma-manager --dump', formats the contents as needed to be valid nix code, then overwrites home-manager/king/plasma-manager/default.nix with the contents. The zsh alias 'upplasma' executes the script. You must do this everytime you want a change to your plasma environment to stick as the next nixos-rebuild will overwrite the current plasma settings with the outstanding plasa-manager dump. Your settings won't immediatley revert back to what they were but will on your next reboot or log-out / log-in.

I hope this helps. If you have any suggestions, comments, questions, please feel free to contact me on discord directly or in the nixos discord channel. My username is KingSK
